Alright in this video we are going to
talk about exception handling inside a
Spring MVC. So we do have a number of
different options we can work with. First
I want to talk about the HTTP status
codes. Now we have the 500 series of the
status codes and those indicate a server
error and generally these are going to
be some type of unhandled exception. So
it's something that went wrong that we
weren't expecting to see. So this is
going to be a 500 error. There's actually
about two dozen of them and a lot of them are server-side events that deals a lot with
like networking and communicating with
other things. The 500 is that's going to
be our unhandled exception and that's
primarily the one that we're going to be
throwing. So this is where something goes wrong. We weren't expecting an NPE
somewhere or something like that. Something that some edge case or
something that you weren't expecting to
happen could be like a loss of database
connectivity. So something bad, some type
of runtime exception. That's where you're
going to be throwing the 500 error code. Now for Spring MVC, the much more
interesting one for us is going to be
the 400 series of codes. So these are
client-side errors. So the client gave us
something that we weren't expecting.
Something went wrong. So the
first one we should talk about is a 400
bad request. We got something malformed on that we weren't able to process it
and it's like we we got it and we're
saying yeah we can't work with this. 401
pretty clear that's an unauthorized
error. You need some type of
authentication. 404 is going to be a very
common one where the client requested a
resource but we're not finding it. It
could be like a database record so we've
been using the recipe example so if they
gave us a recipe ID that we're not
expecting. So we'd want to throw out a
404 error to let them know. Our little
application right now is not doing that
and we definitely will be changing it to
do that. 405 is a method not allowed error. We might have a URL that's mapped and we
could have set a constraint on that. So
that only get is allowed and if you did
a post or delete to it,
you'd want to be throwing a 405
error and that's going to be more common
maybe in web development but more common
if we're doing RESTful interfaces. A
couple of other ones that we want to be
working with, 409 conflict. I have not
got into this but we can track
simultaneous updates. So Hibernate has
the capability to do a version number
and if you have two different version
numbers out there and one gets back
before the other, you have the capability
of throwing a 409 conflict there. And
then 417, I've seen this used a few times
with RESTful interfaces. Some type of
expectation so if you are posting back
a JSON object or something and there's a
property missing, or something like that,
you might want throw 417 and detail that
out. I've seen some people use it that
way and then I just wanted to highlight
418. I'm a teapot and literally that is
in the spec. It's an April Fool's joke
from the IETF Iternet Engineering Task
Force. I threw that in there in 1988. So I
thought that was a little amusing. Now
the one of the most common ones that
we're going to be using is ResponseStatus. It allows us to annotate a custom
exception class with the HTTP status
that we want returned and this is going
to be global to the application. So we
could do like a not found exception and
use that throughout our exception or throughout our
application and to throw a 404 error. Next up is an ExceptionHandler. This is
going to work primarily at the
Controller level and you can define some
method within your Controller for an
exception handler for specific exception type.
And this gives you a little more control
so you can use it in conjunction with
ResponseStatus to set an HTTP status but
you can also return a specific view. So
you can get a lot more control here. You
might want to create a view and return
back details about the error to view so
that you can see that on the screen.
There's a couple schools of thought here
as far as how you're going to do it and
it's going to be depending on how you
want to implement it. You might want to
return back a clean error page, you might
want to do something like hiding
error details and comments on the HTML so you can view that. You might want to make
a model based on the profile that
you're doing. So if you're running in
like dev or QA you can return back
a lot more details about the error. But if
you're running production, you display a
very clean generic error string. So
a couple different things that you do
but the ExceptionHandler is what's
going to give you access to that control. Next up we have the HandlerException
Resolver. So this is an interface within
the Spring MVC framework. It's used
primarily internally by Spring MVC and
what's notable about this is that Model
is not passed into it and I have the
interface implementation down there at
the bottom. And you can see that it takes
in the request response, the handler and
the exception. So that this is a part of
the Spring Framework and because the
model is not there, we can return back a
Model and View from it. Obviously it is
returning back a Model View. But the
working model is not there so that does
want to choose what you can do a
little bit. And internal to Spring MVC,
there's three implementations of that
interface. The ExceptionHandler
ExceptionResolver that matches uncaught
exceptions to the exception handler. So
that's how that's implemented underneath
the cover so when you annotate something
with the ExceptionHandler, that resolver
is going to be invoked. Then we have the
ResponseStatusExceptionResolver. Works
similar but this is going to be looking
for things that are uncaught exceptions
matching the ResponseStatus. And then
finally we have the DefaultHandlerExceptionResolver. It is going to be a
mouthful. This converts standard Spring
exceptions to HTTP status codes and this
one's going to be primarily internal to
Spring. So Spring MVC is going to be
watching for things and it will throw
errors and then the DefaultHandler
ExceptionResolver is going to return
those. Now you can provide as I said
before you can provide your own
implementation of the HandlerException
Resolver, which is the interface that's
being used internally to Spring MVC. And
you want to typically implement this with
Springs ordered
interface so that will give you control as to
how the handlers are run or what
sequence they run in. I don't see this
implemented too often. Actually I can't
remember if I actually implemented it.
I'm sure I probably ran across it at
some point but the exception handling
you have within Spring MVC is pretty
robust. So you usually don't need to get
down to this level but it is there in
case you need to do that. We also have a
simple mapping exception resolver. This
is a Spring bean you can define to map
exceptions to specific views. Now you
only need to define the exception class
name. You don't need to add in the
package and then the view name and you
can also define a default. So this is
a handy way if you have some type
of exception that you want to throw and
then redirect the user to a specific
view. This is where you implement that so
it does give you some nice versatility
and it has no frills. It's going to be a
static page and that as far as I know if
I remember right. You can't pass data to
it but this is going to be a handy way
to redirect a user to specific
informational page if there's an error or a
specific exception. Now you're
probably looking at these wandering
which one do I want to use when and the
first bullet point is, the answer is
going to be depends. If you're just
sending an HTTP status and that is
pretty common, especially if you're doing
RESTful type interfaces,
that's when you want to want to use the
ResponseStatus. If you need to remap to
View, that's where you're going to use
the SimpleMappingExceptionResolver
but if you need something more robust,
I'd consider using the ExceptionHandler
on the Controller. That's going to give
you the most granular control over all. So
which one you want to be using, it's
going to depend on your use case and how
you want to handle that exception. So
there's a lot of different ways you can
handle that.
But overall Spring MVC as you can see
does have some pretty robust tools and
we'll get into a number of examples in
using these exception resolvers coming
up in the course. So you can see real
world-ish implementations of
these and we'll talk through them in
more detail then.